a little info:
when 3d printers print parts 
that are only decorative, there is usually no extra controll needed. parts are printed with one fanspeed where
the material isn't runny liquid and parts come out clean.
Problem rises when printing parts that have to be structurally strong. hot an runny plastic has the ability to bind really well
to a layer below it, liquid plastic usally doesn't hold it's form and parts will go out of specs(not dimantionally accrute anymore).
Therefor printing parts that are nice from outside, but has a strong binding between layers. That requires more precise partcooling fan speed controll.
plan is to to cool the externalperimeter and overhang printing features while not cooling the structural internal perimeter and infill.
this controll will have a huge effect on printing with ABS polycarbonate and other hightemp plastics that suffer from bad layer adhesion.

what is this?

short answer, this is a tool that gives the user ablity to
controll their 3d printer part cooling fan. 3d printer must be using
standard gcode format and the gcode file has to be made using prusaslicer.
other slicers might work with some little tweeks. This program searches for ";TYPE:" in the gcode to distinguish between feature types.

longterm goal is to automate the M106 and M107 injection into the gcode with an S modifier(fanspeed)
S modifier could be defined by feature type (solidinfill, perimeter, overhang ect).
These "rules" could be also set to certaint layers (specified by Z coordinate)
These "rules" are saved as preset/log with the specified material name (ABS, spectrum PLA, ect) and can later be recalled.
Presets can be later recalled by material name and can be edited temporarily or overwriten.
in case there are no preset selected, there will be a new one created if user wishes so.
in case a preset is made, it has to specify fan speeds for feature types, material name, fan operating range.


defineerida erinevad m106\m107 vaartused igale feature typeile
voimaldada erinevad tingimused erinevatele kihtide vahemikudele
salvestab muudatustega faili uuenime all(FANM)
komenteerib et tegu on koodi poolt sooritatud muudatusega uude muudetud faili
kysib kasutajalt mis vaartused mingitele featuritele lahevad ning salvestab selle valiku
GUI
kui leitakse tyyp mida defineeritud ei ole siis annab
prgramm sellest teada, ei muuda midagi ja jatkab tegevust
proge avab file exploreri

koige moistlikum ma arvan on see et me tekitame
NÖ logi faili mis oleks lih config.txt millel on kindel
vormistus ja kindel sisu. kui seda faili pole siis ta teeb selle kui
kasutaja on sisestanud soovitud andmed/muudatused ja jatab selle "meelde"

side-thought prgramm voiks kysida seda config.txt faili sest kasutaja voib kasutada erinevaid preseti/tingimusi
erinevatele materjalidele. sellisel juhul ei peaks kasutaja sisestama igakord infot
vaid kasutaja saab valida oma preset faili ja panna prgramm toole

naide M106config_ABSwhite.txt failile:

M106 CONTROLL CONFIG
MATERIAL: ABSwhite

fanactiverange:

min: 10%
max: 100%

featuretype:

external perimeter = 15%
perimete = 0%
solidinfill = 0%
overhang perimeter = 30%
overhang infill = 20%
top solidinfill = 10%
---||--- = ---||---


teha korda logide majandus
updatida logi failis featrueid(korras ja testidu)
failide ise tegemine ja ylekirjutamine

; stop printing object 30cube.STL id:0 copy 0
;LAYER_CHANGE
;Z:29.4
;HEIGHT:0.199999
;BEFORE_LAYER_CHANGE
;29.4
G92 E0
;


G1 Z29.4 F15000
;AFTER_LAYER_CHANGE
;29.4

